1)Transfer Learning for Face mask detection.
Transfer learning is a machine learning method where a model developed for a task is reused as the starting point for a model
on a second task. It is a popular approach in deep learning where pre-trained models are used as the starting point on computer
vision and natural language processing tasks given the vast compute and time resources required to develop neural network
models on these problems and from the huge jumps in skill that they provide on related problems.

Pre-trained Model Approach
1.	Select Source Model. A pre-trained source model is chosen from available models. Many research institutions release
 models on large and challenging datasets that may be included in the pool of candidate models from which to choose from.
2.	Reuse Model. The model pre-trained model can then be used as the starting point for a model on the second task of
 interest. This may involve using all or parts of the model, depending on the modeling technique used.
3.	Tune Model. Optionally, the model may need to be adapted or refined on the input-output pair data available for the
 task of interest.

2)Python-Programming language.

3)OpenCV-For text, identification of face, for drawing rectangles.
 OpenCV is the huge open-source library for computer vision, machine learning, and image processing and now it plays a
 major role in real-time operation which is very important in today’s systems. By using it,  one can process images and
 videos to identify objects, faces, or even the handwriting of a human. When it is integrated with various libraries,
 such as NumPy, python is capable of processing the OpenCV array structure for analysis. To Identify image patterns and
 their various features we use vector space and perform mathematical operations on these features. 

4)TensorFlow-For classification of faces based on whether they wearing masks or not.
TensorFlow is an end-to-end open source platform for machine learning. It has a comprehensive, flexible ecosystem of tools,
libraries, and community resources that lets researchers push the state-of-the-art in ML and developers easily build and 
deploy ML-powered applications.

5)Haar Cascade Object Detection:
Object Detection using Haar feature-based cascade classifiers is an effective object detection method proposed by Paul Viola
and Michael Jones in their paper, "Rapid Object Detection using a Boosted Cascade of Simple Features" in 2001. It is a
machine learning based approach where a cascade function is trained from a lot of positive and negative images. It is then
used to detect objects in other images. We'll be using a Haar Cascade Model trained to detect faces in order to obtain the
bounding box coordinates of faces in an image.

We needed “haarcascade_frontalface_default.xml” for face detection. It significantly  reduces the computation time and makes
the process more efficient. 

The trained model is loaded and continuous video stream with humans is given as input. The  image or a frame of the video,
in case the input is a video stream, is first sent to the cascade  classifier for the detection of human faces. Then the
image or video frame is resized to obtain  only the cropped face of a person without the background. This face is given as 
the input to the  model which we trained earlier. This outputs whether there is a mask or not. 
